June 2019
New Acronym Not DRMCGIFPX for the Scottish Warrior Duck meets Fight Club!

F FPGA
I IOPS
G Graphics
H High Disk Throughput
T Gen purp T2 micro
D density
R ram
M main gen purp prod apps
C Compute
P Graphics pics
X xtreme memory

Can still boot with HDD magnetic. thought that might have since disappeared.

EBS will not attach two instance drives. EFS still is used to share instance volumes. 
Option here is to create a S3 bucket and attach permissions for both instances to
access the data, but beware of the 11 9's rule. Eventually consistent reads might
corrupt state.

Termination protection is still off by default.
EBS default Termination will kill your volume. Unload it properly. 
Can we do lbu now? Add it in or snapshots is their alternative. 
EBS backed root volumes can be encrypted with bit locker.

Volumes are on EBS 
Snapshots are on S3
Snapshot volumes onto S3
this still their point in time like time machine on the mac
Snaps are also incremental on S3
First ones take a little time

Remember sharing snapshots require them to be unencrypted.
The proceedure still is provision unencrypted root volume, stop. snap. deploy that
snapshot and encrypt those volumes. Still good to stop the instance before taking
the snap, even though docs say you may do it on the fly.

Instance store goes away if underlying host fails (AWS side)- ephemeral.
EBS stop doesnt lose data, termination does.

You may use either for instances, but the root boot volume will go. so make sure
you capture your packages for your custom setups, have an init plan, know what 
bootstrapped script you need, etc. You can tell EBS to keep your root boot volume

Remember Application Consistant Raid Array snapshot. Cache on the applications 
and OS do not get included. So theinterdependencies between the raid array is the issue.
steps:
Stop app from writing to Disk.
Flush the caches to disk.
How?
Freeze the file system.
Unmount the RAID
Shutting down the associated EC2 instance.

AMIs still regional. Still need to copy over the AMI to the needed region.

Monitoring is still 5 min default, can go to 1 min for detailed monitoring.
Cloudwatch for performance monitoring. See notes on SysOps Admin for custom Cron
driven metrics and monitoring. CloudTrail for auditing

Coudwatch Dashboards- still get 2?
Alarms for thresholds billing etc
Events to trigger changes in resources. 
Logs. Go back over the setup with S3. one bucket to aggregate vs console/cli to dictate
where to.

Still use roles over access keys on instances. Watch profile setup and .aws config